---
slug: tikuna-contribution
title: "Tikuna - Our contribution to security on the blockchain"
authors: [andres, francis, loui]
---
---
Although there are advances in cybersecurity, many applications need robust security features. Currently, aside from product quality concerns, the software has numerous adversaries that are attempting to break the lines in order to exploit or sabotage its conditions.

The situation is similar to that of Web 3, and it may even be more severe due to the involvement of factors such as digital assets (crypto or NFTs). Even if the blockchain and its consensus algorithm are used as the basis for carrying out the backend procedures of these technologies, they still have dozens of security vulnerabilities that are found over time by hackers whose objective is not to contribute to the ecosystem. Imagine a large, decentralized network in which hundreds of innovative or newly emerging projects are competing to use it as a platform for the development of their apps. This is a real-world occurrence that takes place on the Ethereum blockchain. As of right now, the increasing levels of hacks, chasing funds, or oversights by institutions, such as the most recent FTX issue, have positioned blockchain cybersecurity as the shelter behind the perfection of its operations. Exchanges, smart contracts, tokens, and decentralized applications are all components of the system that are subjected to quality and security verification as part of the auditing process. Hacks to decentralized finance protocols resulted in the theft of 156 million dollars in just four months during the year 2021. Aside from the fact that this amount represents a significant loss for both individuals and businesses, it is also a sign on a qualitative level, indicating that protocols require integration and maintenance with regard to computer security.     
    
This is something that the Tikuna team is fully aware of. Therefore, we are trying to make an essential contribution to the blockchain community as well as the field of cybersecurity via the development and provision of techniques that help with the early detection/monitoring of threats for the Ethereum P2P network. Moreover, the presence of systems that can enforce and monitor decentralized environments before the occurrence of these unfavorable events instills a greater sense of confidence and intense anticipatory ownership. As an open-source solution, users will have the ability to use the data that is provided in order to improve the integration of security measures. Finally, we are working hard to make the use of blockchain products more secure and predictable, which are both highly valued in the digital world.